feat: add sass compilation guide (#105)
plentymarkets/plenty-developers-docs: docs/en-gb/modules/plentyshop-plugins/pages/sass-compilation.adoc

= SASS compilation
:keywords: css, sass, scss, stylesheet, plugin build
:description: SASS keeps your stylesheets organised. When you use SASS in a plugin, you can either compile it yourself or with the plugin build. This page discusses the advantages of each approach.
:page-genre: concept

[quote,sass-lang.com]
Sass is a stylesheet language that's compiled to CSS. It allows you to use variables, nested rules, mixins, functions, and more, all with a fully CSS-compatible syntax. Sass helps keep large stylesheets well-organized and makes it easy to share design within and across projects.

> plentymarkets supports SASS in plugins.

Author: The quote is a direct quote from their website, so we have to stick to "Sass" there. But I think we write file types in all caps in the rest of our documentation, so it should be the same on this page. To me this is just the two sites applying different styles and I wouldn't change either.

You can use either SASS or SCSS.
The syntax is different, but they're link:https://sass-lang.com/documentation/syntax#scss[compatible with each other^].
If you use SASS in your plugin, you have two ways of compiling it into CSS:

* Before the plugin build, for example via link:https://webpack.js.org/[Webpack^] (<<_precompilation>>, uses link:https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-sass[Node Sass])
* During the plugin build (<<_build_compilation>>, uses link:https://sass-lang.com/dart-sass[Dart Sass])

The recommended way differs depending on your use case.
This page discusses both options based on the implementation in the link:https://github.com/plentymarkets/plugin-ceres[plentyShop LTS plugin repository^].

== General setup

Much of the setup stays the same, no matter which option you use.

> The following tree shows the parts of a plugin's file structure that's relevant to SASS compilation.

Author: ```suggestion
The following tree shows the parts of a plugin's file structure that are relevant to SASS compilation.
```

.Plugin file structure
[source]
----
PluginDirectory/
    │
    ├── resources/
    │   │
    │   ├── css/
    │   │
    │   └── scss/
    │
    ├── src/
    │
    ├── tools/
    │
    ├── package.json
    |
    └── plugin.json
----

Regardless of when you compile your SASS, one important concept is that the plugin build only cares about the `css` directory.
This means that you can use the `scss` directory to write your SASS, but to apply the styling to your shop, you have to include either compiled CSS or processed SASS in the `css` folder.
To process SASS, you can use a script.
For details, refer to the <<_build_compilation>> section.

=== Available scripts

To compile SASS and prepare files for compilation by the plugin build, plentyShop LTS supplies the following scripts:

[source,json]
.package.json
----
include::example$package.json[lines=11..13;24]
----

Once you've installed the packages with `npm install`, you can run the scripts with `npm run build`.
The build script in turn triggers the other scripts.
Note that this script runs both compilation options.
You can either modify the scripts according to your needs or ignore part of the output.

== Precompilation

> The first case applies if you're confident that everyone who modifies the styling has basic programming knowledge and access to the code of the plugin.

Reviewer: Unsicher, was hier mit "first case" gemeint ist, vermutlich "modify the scripts..." aus dem Kapitel davor.
Ich würde vermeiden, Bezug über eine Kapitelgrenze hinaus zu ziehen, unter anderem weil weiter oben direkt auf die Precompilation Sektion verlinkt wird, sodass du nicht davon ausgehen kannst, dass die gesamte Seite linear gelesen wird.

Author: It actually refers to the precompilation vs build compilation case from the beginning.

How about this:
```suggestion
Use precompilation if you're confident that everyone who modifies the styling has basic programming knowledge and access to the code of the plugin.
```

In other words, everyone who needs to change any SASS, changes and compiles the plugin directly.
The benefit of this approach is that you can compile SASS on demand when there are changes and not every time you build your plugin set.
This speeds up the deployment process.

One way of precompiling SASS is to use Webpack.
The plentyShop LTS plugin includes a link:https://github.com/plentymarkets/plugin-ceres/blob/stable/tools/webpack/styles.config.js[Webpack configuration for compiling SASS^].
To adapt this configuration for your own plugin, you have to update the `entry` points:

[source, js]
.styles.config.js
----
include::example$styles.config.js[lines=11..16]
----

Each SASS file you want to compile is its own entry.

> You can also configure the output file name to use a different prefix.

Reviewer: Hier bin ich etwas gestolpert. Zeile 82 bezieht sich noch auf den darüber aufgeführten Part, Zeile 83 bereits auf den nächsten, im Folgenden aufgeführten Part. Ich würde versuchen, das stärker zu trennen, ggf. einfach mit einem Absatz oder so.

By the default, the file prefix is `ceres-`.

[source, js]
----
include::example$styles.config.js[lines=50..55]
----

[IMPORTANT]
.Ignore unnecessary files
====
The build script plentyShop uses prepares the plugin for both precompilation and build compilation.

> If you want to use the script as-is, add the following paths to your `.gitignore` (Git) or `plenty.ignore` (plentyDevTool):

Reviewer: ich kenne "as is" eigentlich nur ohne -
Ist das eine special form?

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to use the script as is, add the following paths to your `.gitignore` (Git) or `plenty.ignore` (plentyDevTool):
```

* `\**/resources/css/*.css`
* `\**/resources/css/*.css.map`

If you use plentyDevTool, you may want to modify the paths to match specific plugins.
====

== Build compilation

> The second case applies if want to make your plugin available to others and enable them to configure parts of the styling, such as the colour scheme.

Reviewer: "The second case applies"

s.a.

Author: ```suggestion
Use build compilation if want to make your plugin available to others and enable them to configure parts of the styling, such as the colour scheme.
```
